README.md, before:

# Awesome Universities in Japan [![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)](https://awesome.re)

> A curated list of universities, resources, and information about higher education in Japan

Japan is home to some of the world's most prestigious universities, offering excellent education in fields ranging from engineering and technology to arts and humanities. This guide provides comprehensive information for international and domestic students interested in studying at Japanese universities.

## 🌐 Languages

- [English](README.md) (Current)
- [日本語](README.ja.md)
- [Deutsch](README.de.md)
- [中文](README.zh.md)
- [Español](README.es.md)

## Contents

- [Top Universities](#top-universities)
- [National Universities](#national-universities)
- [Public Universities](#public-universities)
- [Private Universities](#private-universities)
- [Universities by Field](#universities-by-field)
- [English-Taught Programs](#english-taught-programs)
- [Application Resources](#application-resources)
- [Scholarships](#scholarships)
- [Student Life](#student-life)
- [Language Schools](#language-schools)
- [Useful Resources](#useful-resources)
- [Contributing](#contributing)

## Top Universities

### Tier 1 - Former Imperial Universities

- **[University of Tokyo (東京大学)](https://www.u-tokyo.ac.jp/en/)** - Japan's most prestigious university, consistently ranked #1 in Japan
- **[Kyoto University (京都大学)](https://www.kyoto-u.ac.jp/en)** - Known for producing Nobel laureates and cutting-edge research
- **[Osaka University (大阪大学)](https://www.osaka-u.ac.jp/en)** - Leading research university in western Japan
- **[Tohoku University (東北大学)](https://www.tohoku.ac.jp/en/)** - Pioneer in materials science and engineering
- **[Nagoya University (名古屋大学)](https://en.nagoya-u.ac.jp/)** - Strong in automotive engineering and physics
- **[Kyushu University (九州大学)](https://www.kyushu-u.ac.jp/en/)** - Leading university in southern Japan
- **[Hokkaido University (北海道大学)](https://www.global.hokudai.ac.jp/)** - Largest campus in Japan, strong in agriculture and environmental sciences

### Tier 2 - Top National Universities

- **[Tokyo Institute of Technology (東京工業大学)](https://www.titech.ac.jp/english)** - Premier engineering and technology university
- **[Hitotsubashi University (一橋大学)](https://www.hit-u.ac.jp/eng/)** - Top institution for economics and business
- **[Tsukuba University (筑波大学)](https://www.tsukuba.ac.jp/en/)** - Leading science and research university
- **[Kobe University (神戸大学)](https://www.kobe-u.ac.jp/en/)** - Strong in business and international relations
- **[Tokyo Medical and Dental University (東京医科歯科大学)](https://www.tmd.ac.jp/english/)** - Top medical school

### Top Private Universities

- **[Keio University (慶應義塾大学)](https://www.keio.ac.jp/en/)** - Japan's oldest private university, prestigious business programs
- **[Waseda University (早稲田大学)](https://www.waseda.jp/top/en/)** - Highly international, strong in humanities and social sciences
- **[Sophia University (上智大学)](https://www.sophia.ac.jp/eng/)** - Known for foreign language education and international programs
- **[Ritsumeikan University (立命館大学)](https://en.ritsumei.ac.jp/)** - Strong international presence and English programs

## National Universities

National universities in Japan are government-funded institutions known for research excellence and lower tuition fees.

### By Region

#### Kanto Region
- [University of Tokyo](https://www.u-tokyo.ac.jp/en/)
- [Tokyo Institute of Technology](https://www.titech.ac.jp/english)
- [Hitotsubashi University](https://www.hit-u.ac.jp/eng/)
- [Tokyo University of Foreign Studies](http://www.tufs.ac.jp/english/)
- [Tokyo University of the Arts](https://www.geidai.ac.jp/english)
- [Yokohama National University](https://www.ynu.ac.jp/english/)
- [Chiba University](https://www.chiba-u.ac.jp/e/)
- [Tsukuba University](https://www.tsukuba.ac.jp/en/)

#### Kansai Region
- [Kyoto University](https://www.kyoto-u.ac.jp/en)
- [Osaka University](https://www.osaka-u.ac.jp/en)
- [Kobe University](https://www.kobe-u.ac.jp/en/)
- [Nara Institute of Science and Technology](https://www.naist.jp/en/)

#### Other Regions
- [Hokkaido University](https://www.global.hokudai.ac.jp/) - Sapporo
- [Tohoku University](https://www.tohoku.ac.jp/en/) - Sendai
- [Nagoya University](https://en.nagoya-u.ac.jp/) - Nagoya
- [Kyushu University](https://www.kyushu-u.ac.jp/en/) - Fukuoka
- [Hiroshima University](https://www.hiroshima-u.ac.jp/en) - Hiroshima

## Public Universities

Public universities are funded by prefectural or municipal governments.

- **[Osaka Metropolitan University](https://www.omu.ac.jp/en/)** - Formed by merger, largest public university
- **[Tokyo Metropolitan University](https://www.tmu.ac.jp/english/)** - Leading metropolitan university in Tokyo
- **[Kyoto Institute of Technology](https://www.kit.ac.jp/en/)** - Specialized in engineering and design
- **[Yokohama City University](https://www.yokohama-cu.ac.jp/english/)** - Strong medical and business programs

## Private Universities

### Major Private Universities

#### Early-Waseda-Keio-Sophia-ICU Group (EWKSI)
- [Waseda University](https://www.waseda.jp/top/en/)
- [Keio University](https://www.keio.ac.jp/en/)
- [Sophia University](https://www.sophia.ac.jp/eng/)
- [International Christian University (ICU)](https://www.icu.ac.jp/en/)
- [Doshisha University](https://www.doshisha.ac.jp/en/)

#### MARCH Universities (Top Private in Kanto)
- **Meiji University** - Strong in law and business
- **Aoyama Gakuin University** - International programs
- **Rikkyo University** - Liberal arts focus
- **Chuo University** - Known for law school
- **Hosei University** - Social sciences

#### KKDR Universities (Top Private in Kansai)
- **Kwansei Gakuin University** - International business
- **Kansai University** - Law and engineering
- **Doshisha University** - Humanities and social sciences
- **Ritsumeikan University** - Engineering and international relations

### Specialized Private Universities

- **[Tokyo University of Science](https://www.tus.ac.jp/en/)** - Science and engineering
- **[Juntendo University](https://www.juntendo.ac.jp/english/)** - Medical sciences
- **[Musashino Art University](https://www.musabi.ac.jp/english/)** - Art and design
- **[Tokyo University of the Arts](https://www.geidai.ac.jp/english)** - Fine arts and music

## Universities by Field

### Engineering & Technology
- Tokyo Institute of Technology
- University of Tokyo
- Kyoto University
- Osaka University
- Tohoku University
- Nagoya University
- Tokyo University of Science
- Waseda University

### Medicine & Life Sciences
- Tokyo Medical and Dental University
- Kyoto University
- Osaka University
- Juntendo University
- Keio University (Medicine)
- University of Tokyo (Medicine)

### Business & Economics
- Hitotsubashi University
- Keio University
- Waseda University
- Kobe University
- Osaka University

### Humanities & Social Sciences
- University of Tokyo
- Kyoto University
- Waseda University
- Keio University
- Hitotsubashi University

### International Studies & Languages
- Tokyo University of Foreign Studies
- Sophia University
- International Christian University
- Waseda University (SILS)
- Ritsumeikan Asia Pacific University

### Arts & Design
- Tokyo University of the Arts
- Musashino Art University
- Tama Art University
- Kyoto University of Art and Design

## English-Taught Programs

Many universities now offer degree programs entirely in English.

### Undergraduate Programs
- **[University of Tokyo - PEAK Program](https://peak.c.u-tokyo.ac.jp/)** - Liberal arts and sciences
- **[Waseda University - SILS](https://www.waseda.jp/fire/sils/en/)** - School of International Liberal Studies
- **[Sophia University - FLA/GLS](https://www.sophia.ac.jp/eng/)** - Liberal arts programs
- **[Ritsumeikan Asia Pacific University (APU)](https://en.apu.ac.jp/)** - Fully bilingual university
- **[International Christian University](https://www.icu.ac.jp/en/)** - Liberal arts
- **[Akita International University](https://web.aiu.ac.jp/)** - Global business

### Graduate Programs
- Tokyo Institute of Technology - Multiple English programs
- Osaka University - Various graduate schools
- Kyoto University - Multiple programs
- Tohoku University - International graduate programs
- NAIST (Nara Institute of Science and Technology)

## Application Resources

### Examination Systems

#### EJU (Examination for Japanese University Admission)
- Required for most undergraduate admissions
- Offered twice yearly (June and November)
- Available in Japanese and English
- [Official EJU Website](https://www.jasso.go.jp/en/eju/index.html)

#### Individual University Exams
- Each university conducts its own entrance examination
- May include written tests, interviews, and portfolio reviews
- Requirements vary by program and university

### Application Portals
- [JASSO Gateway to Study in Japan](https://www.studyinjapan.go.jp/en/)
- [Japan Study Support](https://www.jpss.jp/en/)
- [JREC-IN Portal](https://jrecin.jst.go.jp/seek/SeekTop?ln=1) - For research positions

### Requirements Checklist
- [ ] Valid passport
- [ ] Academic transcripts
- [ ] Certificate of graduation
- [ ] Language proficiency (JLPT or TOEFL/IELTS)
- [ ] EJU scores (if required)
- [ ] Statement of purpose
- [ ] Letters of recommendation
- [ ] Financial proof
- [ ] Certificate of Eligibility (COE)

## Scholarships

### Government Scholarships

#### MEXT Scholarship (Monbukagakusho)
- **Full scholarship** covering tuition, living expenses, and airfare
- Available for undergraduate, graduate, and research students
- Highly competitive
- [Official MEXT Information](https://www.studyinjapan.go.jp/en/planning/scholarship/)

### University Scholarships

#### Major Scholarship Programs
- **University of Tokyo Fellowship (UTF)** - For graduate students
- **Keio University Scholarships** - Multiple programs
- **Waseda University Scholarships** - Various undergraduate and graduate scholarships
- **Kyoto University Scholarships** - Research and study scholarships

### Private Scholarships
- **JASSO Scholarships** - Various support programs
- **Rotary Yoneyama Memorial Foundation**
- **Otsuka Toshimi Scholarship Foundation**
- **Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Scholarship Foundation**
- **Asian Development Bank-Japan Scholarship Program**

### Scholarship Search Tools
- [JASSO Scholarship Database](https://www.jasso.go.jp/en/study_j/scholarships/index.html)
- [JPSS Scholarship Search](https://www.jpss.jp/en/scholarship/)

## Student Life

### Accommodation
- **University Dormitories** - Most affordable, limited availability
- **Share Houses** - Popular among international students
- **Private Apartments** - More expensive but more independent
- **Homestay** - Cultural immersion opportunity

### Part-Time Work
- International students can work up to **28 hours per week** (40 hours during breaks)
- Common jobs: Teaching English, convenience store, restaurant
- Requires permission to engage in activities other than studies

### Student Organizations
- Circle activities (サークル) - Sports, culture, hobbies
- International student associations
- Academic clubs and research groups

### Health Insurance
- National Health Insurance (NHI) required for all residents
- Covers 70% of medical expenses
- Monthly premium around ¥2,000-3,000 for students

## Language Schools

For those who need to improve Japanese language skills before university:

### Top Language Schools
- **[KCP International Japanese Language School](https://www.kcpinternational.com/)** - Tokyo
- **[ISI Japanese Language School](https://www.isi-global.com/)** - Multiple locations
- **[Yoshida Institute of Japanese Language](https://www.jpschool.ac.jp/)** - Tokyo
- **[Kyoto Japanese Language School](https://www.kyotojls.co.jp/)** - Kyoto
- **[Fukuoka Foreign Language College](https://www.fflc.ac.jp/)** - Fukuoka

### JLPT (Japanese Language Proficiency Test)
- N5 (Beginner) to N1 (Advanced)
- N2 typically required for undergraduate programs
- N1 often required for graduate programs in Japanese
- Held twice yearly (July and December)

## Useful Resources

### Official Resources
- [MEXT - Ministry of Education](https://www.mext.go.jp/en/)
- [JASSO - Japan Student Services Organization](https://www.jasso.go.jp/en/)
- [Study in Japan Comprehensive Guide](https://www.studyinjapan.go.jp/en/)

### University Rankings
- [QS World University Rankings - Japan](https://www.topuniversities.com/universities/country/japan)
- [Times Higher Education - Japan Rankings](https://www.timeshighereducation.com/world-university-rankings)

### Student Communities
- [GaijinPot Forums](https://gaijinpot.com/forum/) - General Japan living
- [Reddit - r/movingtojapan](https://www.reddit.com/r/movingtojapan/)
- [Reddit - r/japanlife](https://www.reddit.com/r/japanlife/)

### Visa Information
- [Immigration Services Agency](https://www.moj.go.jp/isa/index.html)
- [Student Visa Guide](https://www.studyinjapan.go.jp/en/planning/visa/)

### Cost of Living Guides
- [JASSO Cost Estimates](https://www.jasso.go.jp/en/study_j/sgtj.html)
- Average monthly expenses: ¥100,000-150,000 ($750-1,100)

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please read the [contribution guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) first.

### How to Contribute
1. Fork this repository
2. Create a new branch for your changes
3. Add or update information
4. Submit a pull request

### Guidelines
- Ensure links are working and up-to-date
- Add accurate and verifiable information
- Follow the existing format and structure
- Include both English and Japanese names for institutions

## License

[![CC0](https://licensebuttons.net/p/zero/1.0/88x31.png)](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/)

To the extent possible under law, the contributors have waived all copyright and related rights to this work.

Commit message:

Update to dual license structure
- Add LICENSE file explaining dual licensing
- Code/software: AGPL-3.0
- Documentation/README files: CC BY-NC 4.0
- Update license sections in all README files (en, ja, de, zh, es)
- Ensures proper attribution and non-commercial use for documentation
- Ensures copyleft and network use disclosure for code

README.md, after:

# Awesome Universities in Japan [![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)](https://awesome.re)

> A curated list of universities, resources, and information about higher education in Japan

Japan is home to some of the world's most prestigious universities, offering excellent education in fields ranging from engineering and technology to arts and humanities. This guide provides comprehensive information for international and domestic students interested in studying at Japanese universities.

## 🌐 Languages

- [English](README.md) (Current)
- [日本語](README.ja.md)
- [Deutsch](README.de.md)
- [中文](README.zh.md)
- [Español](README.es.md)

## Contents

- [Top Universities](#top-universities)
- [National Universities](#national-universities)
- [Public Universities](#public-universities)
- [Private Universities](#private-universities)
- [Universities by Field](#universities-by-field)
- [English-Taught Programs](#english-taught-programs)
- [Application Resources](#application-resources)
- [Scholarships](#scholarships)
- [Student Life](#student-life)
- [Language Schools](#language-schools)
- [Useful Resources](#useful-resources)
- [Contributing](#contributing)

## Top Universities

### Tier 1 - Former Imperial Universities

- **[University of Tokyo (東京大学)](https://www.u-tokyo.ac.jp/en/)** - Japan's most prestigious university, consistently ranked #1 in Japan
- **[Kyoto University (京都大学)](https://www.kyoto-u.ac.jp/en)** - Known for producing Nobel laureates and cutting-edge research
- **[Osaka University (大阪大学)](https://www.osaka-u.ac.jp/en)** - Leading research university in western Japan
- **[Tohoku University (東北大学)](https://www.tohoku.ac.jp/en/)** - Pioneer in materials science and engineering
- **[Nagoya University (名古屋大学)](https://en.nagoya-u.ac.jp/)** - Strong in automotive engineering and physics
- **[Kyushu University (九州大学)](https://www.kyushu-u.ac.jp/en/)** - Leading university in southern Japan
- **[Hokkaido University (北海道大学)](https://www.global.hokudai.ac.jp/)** - Largest campus in Japan, strong in agriculture and environmental sciences

### Tier 2 - Top National Universities

- **[Tokyo Institute of Technology (東京工業大学)](https://www.titech.ac.jp/english)** - Premier engineering and technology university
- **[Hitotsubashi University (一橋大学)](https://www.hit-u.ac.jp/eng/)** - Top institution for economics and business
- **[Tsukuba University (筑波大学)](https://www.tsukuba.ac.jp/en/)** - Leading science and research university
- **[Kobe University (神戸大学)](https://www.kobe-u.ac.jp/en/)** - Strong in business and international relations
- **[Tokyo Medical and Dental University (東京医科歯科大学)](https://www.tmd.ac.jp/english/)** - Top medical school

### Top Private Universities

- **[Keio University (慶應義塾大学)](https://www.keio.ac.jp/en/)** - Japan's oldest private university, prestigious business programs
- **[Waseda University (早稲田大学)](https://www.waseda.jp/top/en/)** - Highly international, strong in humanities and social sciences
- **[Sophia University (上智大学)](https://www.sophia.ac.jp/eng/)** - Known for foreign language education and international programs
- **[Ritsumeikan University (立命館大学)](https://en.ritsumei.ac.jp/)** - Strong international presence and English programs

## National Universities

National universities in Japan are government-funded institutions known for research excellence and lower tuition fees.

### By Region

#### Kanto Region
- [University of Tokyo](https://www.u-tokyo.ac.jp/en/)
- [Tokyo Institute of Technology](https://www.titech.ac.jp/english)
- [Hitotsubashi University](https://www.hit-u.ac.jp/eng/)
- [Tokyo University of Foreign Studies](http://www.tufs.ac.jp/english/)
- [Tokyo University of the Arts](https://www.geidai.ac.jp/english)
- [Yokohama National University](https://www.ynu.ac.jp/english/)
- [Chiba University](https://www.chiba-u.ac.jp/e/)
- [Tsukuba University](https://www.tsukuba.ac.jp/en/)

#### Kansai Region
- [Kyoto University](https://www.kyoto-u.ac.jp/en)
- [Osaka University](https://www.osaka-u.ac.jp/en)
- [Kobe University](https://www.kobe-u.ac.jp/en/)
- [Nara Institute of Science and Technology](https://www.naist.jp/en/)

#### Other Regions
- [Hokkaido University](https://www.global.hokudai.ac.jp/) - Sapporo
- [Tohoku University](https://www.tohoku.ac.jp/en/) - Sendai
- [Nagoya University](https://en.nagoya-u.ac.jp/) - Nagoya
- [Kyushu University](https://www.kyushu-u.ac.jp/en/) - Fukuoka
- [Hiroshima University](https://www.hiroshima-u.ac.jp/en) - Hiroshima

## Public Universities

Public universities are funded by prefectural or municipal governments.

- **[Osaka Metropolitan University](https://www.omu.ac.jp/en/)** - Formed by merger, largest public university
- **[Tokyo Metropolitan University](https://www.tmu.ac.jp/english/)** - Leading metropolitan university in Tokyo
- **[Kyoto Institute of Technology](https://www.kit.ac.jp/en/)** - Specialized in engineering and design
- **[Yokohama City University](https://www.yokohama-cu.ac.jp/english/)** - Strong medical and business programs

## Private Universities

### Major Private Universities

#### Early-Waseda-Keio-Sophia-ICU Group (EWKSI)
- [Waseda University](https://www.waseda.jp/top/en/)
- [Keio University](https://www.keio.ac.jp/en/)
- [Sophia University](https://www.sophia.ac.jp/eng/)
- [International Christian University (ICU)](https://www.icu.ac.jp/en/)
- [Doshisha University](https://www.doshisha.ac.jp/en/)

#### MARCH Universities (Top Private in Kanto)
- **Meiji University** - Strong in law and business
- **Aoyama Gakuin University** - International programs
- **Rikkyo University** - Liberal arts focus
- **Chuo University** - Known for law school
- **Hosei University** - Social sciences

#### KKDR Universities (Top Private in Kansai)
- **Kwansei Gakuin University** - International business
- **Kansai University** - Law and engineering
- **Doshisha University** - Humanities and social sciences
- **Ritsumeikan University** - Engineering and international relations

### Specialized Private Universities

- **[Tokyo University of Science](https://www.tus.ac.jp/en/)** - Science and engineering
- **[Juntendo University](https://www.juntendo.ac.jp/english/)** - Medical sciences
- **[Musashino Art University](https://www.musabi.ac.jp/english/)** - Art and design
- **[Tokyo University of the Arts](https://www.geidai.ac.jp/english)** - Fine arts and music

## Universities by Field

### Engineering & Technology
- Tokyo Institute of Technology
- University of Tokyo
- Kyoto University
- Osaka University
- Tohoku University
- Nagoya University
- Tokyo University of Science
- Waseda University

### Medicine & Life Sciences
- Tokyo Medical and Dental University
- Kyoto University
- Osaka University
- Juntendo University
- Keio University (Medicine)
- University of Tokyo (Medicine)

### Business & Economics
- Hitotsubashi University
- Keio University
- Waseda University
- Kobe University
- Osaka University

### Humanities & Social Sciences
- University of Tokyo
- Kyoto University
- Waseda University
- Keio University
- Hitotsubashi University

### International Studies & Languages
- Tokyo University of Foreign Studies
- Sophia University
- International Christian University
- Waseda University (SILS)
- Ritsumeikan Asia Pacific University

### Arts & Design
- Tokyo University of the Arts
- Musashino Art University
- Tama Art University
- Kyoto University of Art and Design

## English-Taught Programs

Many universities now offer degree programs entirely in English.

### Undergraduate Programs
- **[University of Tokyo - PEAK Program](https://peak.c.u-tokyo.ac.jp/)** - Liberal arts and sciences
- **[Waseda University - SILS](https://www.waseda.jp/fire/sils/en/)** - School of International Liberal Studies
- **[Sophia University - FLA/GLS](https://www.sophia.ac.jp/eng/)** - Liberal arts programs
- **[Ritsumeikan Asia Pacific University (APU)](https://en.apu.ac.jp/)** - Fully bilingual university
- **[International Christian University](https://www.icu.ac.jp/en/)** - Liberal arts
- **[Akita International University](https://web.aiu.ac.jp/)** - Global business

### Graduate Programs
- Tokyo Institute of Technology - Multiple English programs
- Osaka University - Various graduate schools
- Kyoto University - Multiple programs
- Tohoku University - International graduate programs
- NAIST (Nara Institute of Science and Technology)

## Application Resources

### Examination Systems

#### EJU (Examination for Japanese University Admission)
- Required for most undergraduate admissions
- Offered twice yearly (June and November)
- Available in Japanese and English
- [Official EJU Website](https://www.jasso.go.jp/en/eju/index.html)

#### Individual University Exams
- Each university conducts its own entrance examination
- May include written tests, interviews, and portfolio reviews
- Requirements vary by program and university

### Application Portals
- [JASSO Gateway to Study in Japan](https://www.studyinjapan.go.jp/en/)
- [Japan Study Support](https://www.jpss.jp/en/)
- [JREC-IN Portal](https://jrecin.jst.go.jp/seek/SeekTop?ln=1) - For research positions

### Requirements Checklist
- [ ] Valid passport
- [ ] Academic transcripts
- [ ] Certificate of graduation
- [ ] Language proficiency (JLPT or TOEFL/IELTS)
- [ ] EJU scores (if required)
- [ ] Statement of purpose
- [ ] Letters of recommendation
- [ ] Financial proof
- [ ] Certificate of Eligibility (COE)

## Scholarships

### Government Scholarships

#### MEXT Scholarship (Monbukagakusho)
- **Full scholarship** covering tuition, living expenses, and airfare
- Available for undergraduate, graduate, and research students
- Highly competitive
- [Official MEXT Information](https://www.studyinjapan.go.jp/en/planning/scholarship/)

### University Scholarships

#### Major Scholarship Programs
- **University of Tokyo Fellowship (UTF)** - For graduate students
- **Keio University Scholarships** - Multiple programs
- **Waseda University Scholarships** - Various undergraduate and graduate scholarships
- **Kyoto University Scholarships** - Research and study scholarships

### Private Scholarships
- **JASSO Scholarships** - Various support programs
- **Rotary Yoneyama Memorial Foundation**
- **Otsuka Toshimi Scholarship Foundation**
- **Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Scholarship Foundation**
- **Asian Development Bank-Japan Scholarship Program**

### Scholarship Search Tools
- [JASSO Scholarship Database](https://www.jasso.go.jp/en/study_j/scholarships/index.html)
- [JPSS Scholarship Search](https://www.jpss.jp/en/scholarship/)

## Student Life

### Accommodation
- **University Dormitories** - Most affordable, limited availability
- **Share Houses** - Popular among international students
- **Private Apartments** - More expensive but more independent
- **Homestay** - Cultural immersion opportunity

### Part-Time Work
- International students can work up to **28 hours per week** (40 hours during breaks)
- Common jobs: Teaching English, convenience store, restaurant
- Requires permission to engage in activities other than studies

### Student Organizations
- Circle activities (サークル) - Sports, culture, hobbies
- International student associations
- Academic clubs and research groups

### Health Insurance
- National Health Insurance (NHI) required for all residents
- Covers 70% of medical expenses
- Monthly premium around ¥2,000-3,000 for students

## Language Schools

For those who need to improve Japanese language skills before university:

### Top Language Schools
- **[KCP International Japanese Language School](https://www.kcpinternational.com/)** - Tokyo
- **[ISI Japanese Language School](https://www.isi-global.com/)** - Multiple locations
- **[Yoshida Institute of Japanese Language](https://www.jpschool.ac.jp/)** - Tokyo
- **[Kyoto Japanese Language School](https://www.kyotojls.co.jp/)** - Kyoto
- **[Fukuoka Foreign Language College](https://www.fflc.ac.jp/)** - Fukuoka

### JLPT (Japanese Language Proficiency Test)
- N5 (Beginner) to N1 (Advanced)
- N2 typically required for undergraduate programs
- N1 often required for graduate programs in Japanese
- Held twice yearly (July and December)

## Useful Resources

### Official Resources
- [MEXT - Ministry of Education](https://www.mext.go.jp/en/)
- [JASSO - Japan Student Services Organization](https://www.jasso.go.jp/en/)
- [Study in Japan Comprehensive Guide](https://www.studyinjapan.go.jp/en/)

### University Rankings
- [QS World University Rankings - Japan](https://www.topuniversities.com/universities/country/japan)
- [Times Higher Education - Japan Rankings](https://www.timeshighereducation.com/world-university-rankings)

### Student Communities
- [GaijinPot Forums](https://gaijinpot.com/forum/) - General Japan living
- [Reddit - r/movingtojapan](https://www.reddit.com/r/movingtojapan/)
- [Reddit - r/japanlife](https://www.reddit.com/r/japanlife/)

### Visa Information
- [Immigration Services Agency](https://www.moj.go.jp/isa/index.html)
- [Student Visa Guide](https://www.studyinjapan.go.jp/en/planning/visa/)

### Cost of Living Guides
- [JASSO Cost Estimates](https://www.jasso.go.jp/en/study_j/sgtj.html)
- Average monthly expenses: ¥100,000-150,000 ($750-1,100)

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please read the [contribution guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) first.

### How to Contribute
1. Fork this repository
2. Create a new branch for your changes
3. Add or update information
4. Submit a pull request

### Guidelines
- Ensure links are working and up-to-date
- Add accurate and verifiable information
- Follow the existing format and structure
- Include both English and Japanese names for institutions

## License

This repository uses a dual license:

### Documentation License

[![CC BY-NC 4.0](https://licensebuttons.net/l/by-nc/4.0/88x31.png)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/)

All documentation and README files are licensed under [Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International (CC BY-NC 4.0)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/).

### Code License

Any code or software implementations are licensed under [GNU Affero General Public License v3.0 (AGPL-3.0)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0.html).

See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for full details.
